Add Community Showcase blogpost (#905)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/community-day-2023.mdx

---
title: "Building a community of builders"
description: "Today, we launch our newest initiative to recognize and celebrate people in our community who go above and beyond, including our very own maintainers."
publishDate: "December 7, 2023"
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day-2023/header.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
authors:
  - sarah
  - elian
---

import CommunityProject from '../../components/CommunityProject.astro'

Astro continues to evolve how it works with and for its community. 

With generous Open Collective funding support, we regularly recognize and reward people in our community who made a difference that month: submitting code and bug fixes, being welcoming and helpful in support threads, translating the docs, and other contributions that enrich everyone's Astro experience.

> Previously a quarterly event, Astro kicked it into high gear over the last few months and committed to issuing awards on a monthly basis. We also changed the nomination structure from peer-nominated awards to core-maintainer-nominated awards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously a quarterly event, Astro kicked it into high gear over the last few months and committed to issuing awards on a monthly basis. We also changed from peer-nominated awards to recipients chosen by our core maintainers.
```

> Previously a quarterly event, Astro kicked it into high gear over the last few months and committed to issuing awards on a monthly basis. We also changed the nomination structure from peer-nominated awards to core-maintainer nominated awards. 

Reviewer 2: I guess the hyphen here is wrong? My instinct would be `core-maintainer-nominated`. "Core maintainer" doesn't have hyphens, but since we're chaining these in the same way as "peer", that makes me think that would be the case.

```suggestion
Previously a quarterly event, Astro kicked it into high gear over the last few months and committed to issuing awards on a monthly basis. We also changed the nomination structure from peer-nominated awards to core-maintainer-nominated awards.
```

A community award is nice, but until now, this recognition has mostly stayed within our community. We wanted a better, more public, and more permanent place for community recognition. Somewhere you could show off to friends and family, maybe to explain where all those nights and weekends went!

We are thrilled to announce the launch of our first public community space: https://community.astro.build built by our first Community Engineer, Elian van Cutsem.

The first challenge was to design a friendly and welcoming homepage, which gives the visitor all the information about our Community Awards at a glance. For that, the DX team worked closely with our designer Mark to set up a homepage and design language. Once we were happy with the design, we started building an Astro website and translating our design into components, with a focus on accessibility and SEO.

> Right now, the website serves a single purpose: to showcase the Astro Community Award winners. But, our plan is to incrementally expand the website with more community initiatives & projects in the future.

Reviewer 2: Not wrong, but maybe this way the phrase sounds better?
```suggestion
Right now, the website serves a single purpose: to showcase the Astro Community Award winners. However, we plan to incrementally expand the website with more community initiatives & projects in the future.
```

> Today, you can visit and celebrate the people who help make Astro the project you love to use. Stay tuned for more exciting community initiatives that will find a home there as we grow and extend the site!

Reviewer 2: Since the Community page will potentially include people that are no longer contributing, perhaps it makes sense to use "helped"?
```suggestion
Today, you can visit and celebrate the people who helped make Astro the project you love to use. Stay tuned for more exciting community initiatives that will find a home there as we grow and extend the site!
```

![A screenshot of the Astro Community Microsite](./_images/community-day-2023/community-microsite.webp)

## Maintainer Projects

> Each week in our community calls, and in our Discord `#showcase` channel, we highlight and celebrate all the things our community builds with Astro. Not everyone can make the weekly call, so we started posting weekly recaps in our `#announcements` channel. We also now post monthly blog posts so you'll never miss the best new sites, tools and articles made by and for our community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each week in our community calls, and in our Discord `#showcase` channel, we highlight and celebrate all the things our community builds with Astro. Not everyone can make the weekly call, so we started posting weekly recaps in our `#announcements` channel. We also now post monthly blog posts so you'll never miss the best new sites, tools, and articles made by and for our community.
```

We wanted to take this opportunity to recognize a very special kind of community contribution that you might not normally see: the personal experiments and side projects that our own maintainers build to make *working on* and *contributing to* Astro as great an experience as we hope building with Astro is for you.

> Maintaining an open source project means spending a lot of time in our code editors, in PRs and on GitHub, looking things up in docs, keeping track of work-in-progress, and collaborating with others.

Reviewer 2: comma nit
```suggestion
Maintaining an open-source project means spending a lot of time in our code editors, in PRs, and on GitHub, looking things up in docs, keeping track of work-in-progress, and collaborating with others.
```

We'd like to showcase some of these tools we've built for our *own* use as we, and our community contributors, build Astro for you. Some of these make routine tasks easier, and some just make them more fun... because that's part of the point, too!

## Maintainer Projects Showcase

<CommunityProject
    creator="Sarah"
		github="https://github.com/sarah11918"
		name="Astro Docs Docs (AD²)"
		link="https://contribute.docs.astro.build/"
    linkTextOverride="contribute.docs.astro.build"
		description="Doc’ing Astro Docs! An entire site full of guides and resources for contributing to Astro Docs."

> 		fact="I have a Starlight problem! This project started as an easier way to organize and write than updating our existing guides as plain Markdown files in the GitHub repo. Everytime I need to organize information, I create a new Starlight project. Shout out to Yan Thomas for providing all of our i18n content. Special thanks to Chris Swithinbank for his encouragement and support, and insisting that this should actually be a deployed site for the Astro project!"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		fact="I have a Starlight problem! This project started as an easier way to organize and write than updating our existing guides as plain Markdown files in the GitHub repo. Every time I need to organize information, I create a new Starlight project. Shout out to Yan Thomas for providing all of our i18n content. Special thanks to Chris Swithinbank for his encouragement and support, and for insisting that this should actually be a deployed site for the Astro project!"
```

    img={import('./_images/community-day-2023/sarah.webp')}
/>

<CommunityProject
  creator="Elian"
  github="https://github.com/eliancodes"
  name="Raycast Extension"
  link="https://www.raycast.com/ElianCodes/search-astro-docs"
  linkTextOverride="Raycast Store"
  description="Reach and search the Astro Documentation in an instant right from Raycast without any hassle. Supports all languages that Astro Documentation supports & has all sidebar links that Astro Documentation has."

>   fact="As a docs editor, I found myself constantly having to manually navigate to Astro Documentation and searching for the right pages. I use Raycast all the time, so it seemed like a good solution to create an extension that sped up my docs writing & reviewing process."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  fact="As a docs editor, I found myself constantly having to manually navigate to Astro Documentation and search for the right pages. I use Raycast all the time, so it seemed like a good solution to create an extension that sped up my docs writing & reviewing process."
```

  fact="After I initially built these features into Astro Docs, users kept asking us how they could use our code snippets in their own projects. This led me to create Expressive Code as a standalone project, which actually became my first published set of NPM packages! I’m really happy that it’s already being used by Astro Docs, Starlight, and many individual websites."
  img={import('./_images/community-day-2023/hippo.webp')}
/>

<CommunityProject 
  creator="Kevin & Otterlord"
  github="https://github.com/kevinzunigacuellar/coauthor-generator"
  name="Co-author generator"
  link="https://coauthor.kevinzunigacuellar.com/"
  linkTextOverride="coauthor.kevinzunigacuellar.com"
  description="Create co-author messages to credit contributors 💜. This tool collects PR participants and creates a formatted co-author string for git commits."

>   fact="At Astro, we highly value acknowledging our contributors. Our previous method involved quite a bit of manual work to searching for individual's git signature on GitHub so we could add them to a PR commit. Occasionally, this process took longer than the actual PR, but it was a worthwhile effort to show appreciation to our community."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  fact="At Astro, we highly value acknowledging our contributors. Our previous method involved quite a bit of manual work to search for an individual's git signature on GitHub so we could add them to a PR commit. Occasionally, this process took longer than the actual PR, but it was a worthwhile effort to show appreciation to our community."
```

  img={import('./_images/community-day-2023/kevin.webp')}
/>

<CommunityProject 
  creator="Alexander Niebuhr"
  github="https://github.com/alexanderniebuhr"
  name="Astropix"
  link="https://docs.a.stro.pictures/"
  linkTextOverride="docs.a.stro.pictures"

>   description="Brand-new integration which adds a external remote image service to `astro:assets`. Your images will get a remote url which optimizes them, similar to paid digital asset management services... but for free, if you have a Astro Project! It works with every Astro adapter and hosting provider."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description="Brand-new integration which adds an external remote image service to `astro:assets`. Your images will get a remote URL that optimizes them, similar to paid digital asset management services... but for free, if you have an Astro project! It works with every Astro adapter and hosting provider."
```

>   fact="External Remote Image Optimization is either complex to setup or costs too much. Making this available to all Astro users for free makes Astro's Image story a lot better. The most complex thing to get right is authorization: how to make sure only Astro users can use it for free and having a fair-use policy in place."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  fact="External Remote Image Optimization is either complex to set up or costs too much. Making this available to all Astro users for free makes Astro's Image story a lot better. The most complex thing to get right is authorization: how to make sure only Astro users can use it for free and having a fair-use policy in place."
```

/>

<CommunityProject 
  creator="Otterlord"
  github="https://github.com/TheOtterlord/semver"
  name="Semver"
  link="https://semver.otterlord.dev/"
  linkTextOverride="semver.otterlord.dev"
  description="View NPM package versions, and calculate a semver range. Useful for calculating ranges for compatible peer dependencies."
  fact="You can view the usage across packages on the public Plausible dashboard."
  img={import('./_images/community-day-2023/otterlord.webp')}
/>

<CommunityProject 
  creator="Nate & Chris"
  github="https://github.com/withastro/automation"
  name="Astro Automation"
  link="https://github.com/withastro/automation"
  linkTextOverride="github.com/withastro/automation"
  description="A centralized repository for reusable GitHub Action workflows. These actions help us automate common workflows across many different repositories in the withastro GitHub organization. The major benefit of having common workflows in a single location is that maintenance happens in one spot and is automatically rolled out to all of our repositories. Centralized workflows also make it much easier to set up automated workflows for brand new repositories."

>   fact="When we first started building Astro, we had one central Astro monorepo for all of our code and documentation. This made it easy to share tooling and configuration but it became increasingly difficult to collaborate on many different focus areas as the project grew. While copying and pasting workflow files works for a small handful of repositories, the number of repositories began to grow in the summer of 2023. This automation repository is used by all of our repositories to share merge notifications in our Discord (congratsbot), format our source code with Prettier (format), and automate issue labelling (issue-opened and issue-labeled)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  fact="When we first started building Astro, we had one central Astro monorepo for all of our code and documentation. This made it easy to share tooling and configuration but it became increasingly difficult to collaborate on many different focus areas as the project grew. While copying and pasting workflow files works for a small handful of repositories, the number of repositories began to grow in the summer of 2023. This automation repository is used by all of our repositories to share merge notifications in our Discord (congratsbot), format our source code with Prettier (format), and automate issue labeling (issue-opened and issue-labeled)"
```

  img={import('./_images/community-day-2023/nate.webp')}
/>

<CommunityProject 
  creator="happydev"
  github="https://github.com/moustaphadev"
  name="Live Astro Compiler"
  link="https://live-astro-compiler.vercel.app/"
  linkTextOverride="live-astro-compiler.vercel.app"
  description="A playground for the Astro compiler that generates insightful previews of the compiled output of Astro components."
  fact="Sparked by the struggle of quickly spotting compiler bugs, I built this to save time on issue troubleshooting. Instead of diving straight into writing tests, now we can just toss some code into the playground, check out the output, and easily spot and show others what’s going wrong — making the whole debugging dance way smoother!"
  img={import('./_images/community-day-2023/happydev.webp')}
/>

<CommunityProject 
  creator="Chris"
  github="https://github.com/delucis/"
  name="Astro Badges"
  link="https://astro.badg.es/"
  linkTextOverride="astro.badg.es"

>   description="Astro Badges celebrates Astro contributors with embeddable images featuring achievements unlocked by GitHub activity in the withastro organisation. From Little Green Bug to Constellation Crafter, every one of Astro’s almost 3,500 contributors is here!"
>   fact="Astro Badges started as a weekend project after I noticed the badg.es domain was available. It’s grown a lot since then, including a full redesign, collaborating with Astro’s designer, @doodlemarks. Probably the most challenging thing about maintaining it is coming up with fun achievement names, although @sarah11918 is always game to workshop them! My favourite recent addition is probably the SSRsly achievement for people working on Astro’s serverless adapters. Shout out to @Yan-Thomas, @ElianCodes, @natemoo-re, @mayank99, @torn4dom4n, @jacobthesheep, and @TheOtterlord for contributing along the way 🙌"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  description="Astro Badges celebrates Astro contributors with embeddable images featuring achievements unlocked by GitHub activity in the withastro organization. From Little Green Bug to Constellation Crafter, every one of Astro’s almost 3,500 contributors is here!"
  fact="Astro Badges started as a weekend project after I noticed the badg.es domain was available. It’s grown a lot since then, including a full redesign in collaboration with Astro’s designer, @doodlemarks. Probably the most challenging thing about maintaining it is coming up with fun achievement names, although @sarah11918 is always game to workshop them! My favorite recent addition is probably the SSRsly achievement for people working on Astro’s serverless adapters. Shout out to @Yan-Thomas, @ElianCodes, @natemoo-re, @mayank99, @torn4dom4n, @jacobthesheep, and @TheOtterlord for contributing along the way 🙌"
```

---
title: "Building a community of builders"
description: "Today, we launch our newest initiative to recognize people in our community who go above and beyond, including our very own maintainers."
publishDate: "December 7, 2023"
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day-2023/header.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
authors:
  - sarah
  - elian
---

import CommunityProject from '../../components/CommunityProject.astro'

Astro continues to evolve how it works with and for its community. 

Our community awards allow us to give back to those who volunteer their time submitting code and bug fixes, being welcoming and helpful in support threads, translating the docs, and enriching everyone's Astro experience.

Previously a quarterly event, Astro recently committed to issuing these awards on a monthly basis. We also changed from peer-nominated awards to recipients chosen by our core maintainers.

> This might sound less democratic, but we think of it like open-source maintainer gratitude journaling: **we ensure that our core maintainers are actively reflecting, and on the lookout for the next crop of up-and-comers**. We are proud to say that we dedicate time to our open-source community's health, growth, and sustainability.

Reviewer 2: comma nit
```suggestion
This might sound less democratic, but we think of it like open-source maintainer gratitude journaling: **we ensure that our core maintainers are actively reflecting and on the lookout for the next crop of up-and-comers**. We are proud to say that we dedicate time to our open-source community's health, growth, and sustainability.
```

---
title: "Building a community of builders"
description: "Today, we launch our newest initiative to recognize and celebrate people in our community who go above and beyond, including our very own maintainers."
publishDate: "December 7, 2023"
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day-2023/header.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/community-day-2023/og.webp"
lang: "en"
authors:
  - sarah
  - elian
---

import CommunityProject from '../../components/CommunityProject.astro'

Astro continues to evolve how it works with and for its community. 

With generous Open Collective funding support, we regularly recognize and reward people in our community who made a difference that month: submitting code and bug fixes, being welcoming and helpful in support threads, translating the docs, and other contributions that enrich everyone's Astro experience.

Previously a quarterly event, Astro kicked it into high gear over the last few months and committed to issuing awards on a monthly basis. We also changed the nomination structure from peer-nominated awards to core-maintainer-nominated awards.

> This might sound less democratic, but our motivations were to **ensure that our core maintainers were actively on the lookout for the next crop of up-and-comers**. We now hold monthly maintainer meetings entirely dedicated to thinking about and shouting out who is most active in our community. As a core team, we dedicate time to our open-source community's health, growth, and sustainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might sound less democratic, but our motivations were to **ensure that our core maintainers were actively on the lookout for the next crop of up-and-comers**. We now hold monthly meetings entirely dedicated to reflecting on our contributors. As a core team, we dedicate time to our open-source community's health, growth, and sustainability.
```

A community award is nice, but until now, this recognition has mostly stayed within our community. We wanted a better, more public, and more permanent place for community recognition. Somewhere you could show off to friends and family, maybe to explain where all those nights and weekends went!

We are thrilled to announce the launch of our first public community space: https://community.astro.build built by our first Community Engineer, Elian van Cutsem.

The first challenge was to design a friendly and welcoming homepage, which gives the visitor all the information about our Community Awards at a glance. For that, the DX team worked closely with our designer Mark to set up a homepage and design language. Once we were happy with the design, we started building an Astro website and translating our design into components, with a focus on accessibility and SEO.

> Right now, the website serves a single purpose: to showcase the Astro Community Award winners. However, we plan to incrementally expand the website with more community initiatives & projects in the future.
> 
> Today, you can visit and celebrate the people who helped make Astro the project you love to use. Stay tuned for more exciting community initiatives that will find a home there as we grow and extend the site!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, you can visit and celebrate the people who helped make Astro the project you love to use. Stay tuned for more exciting community initiatives that will find a home there as we grow and extend the site!
```

![A screenshot of the Astro Community Microsite](./_images/community-day-2023/community-microsite.webp)

## Maintainer Projects

> Each week in our community calls, and in our Discord `#showcase` channel, we highlight and celebrate all the things our community builds with Astro. Not everyone can make the weekly call, so we started posting weekly recaps in our `#announcements` channel. We also now post monthly blog posts so you'll never miss the best new sites, tools, and articles made by and for our community.
> 
> We wanted to take this opportunity to recognize a very special kind of community contribution that you might not normally see: the personal experiments and side projects that our own maintainers build to make *working on* and *contributing to* Astro as great an experience as we hope building with Astro is for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each week in our community calls we highlight and celebrate all the things our community builds *with* Astro. Today, we want to recognize a very special kind of community contribution that you might not normally see: the personal experiments and side projects that our own maintainers build for *working on* and *contributing to* Astro 
```
